---
title: General Privacy Policy - Legal Text
summary: The full-text of the Pins team's general Privacy Policy.
---

**Last updated** : 7-1-2020

This Privacy Policy sets out how we, **The Pins Team**, use and protect your personal data that you provide to us, or that is otherwise obtained or generated by us, in connection with your use of our **Apps**, **Integrations and Serivces** and **Websites** (or simply **Services**). For the purposes of this Privacy Policy, **‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’** refers to the Pins team, and **‘you’** refers to you, the user of the Services.

## Our Privacy Principles
- We respect your privacy by not selling it to third-parties for ads.
- We only store data for our Services to give you more personalized experience.
- While we're using some third-party services such as [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com), their privacy policies are also in effect while using our services.

## EEA Representive
If you live in a country in the [European Economic Area (EEA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Economic_Area), the Services that are provided by the Pins team which for the purposes of applicable data protection legislation is the data controller responsible for your personal data when you use our Services. Currently, we don't have an EEA representive yet, so all of your 

## Terms of Service
This Privacy Policy forms part of our Terms of Service, which describes the terms under which you use our Services and which are available at https://legal.madebythepins.tk/tos. This Privacy Policy should therefore be read in conjunction with those terms.

## Legal Ground for Processing Your Personal Data
We process your personal data on the ground that such processing is necessary to further our legitimate interests (including: (1) providing effective and innovative Services to our users; and (2) to detect, prevent or otherwise address spam, fraud or security issues in respect of our provision of Services), unless those interests are overridden by your interest or fundamental rights and freedoms that require protections of personal data.

## What Personal Data We Use

### Basic Account Data
You provide your email address, an password that only you can know, and some basic account data (profile name, profile picture from Gravatar, and an username the public can refer to you) to create an account on our **Website** or thru our **Apps**. (See IAM/SSO privacy policy for details.)

We do **not** require your screen name to be your real name, but sometimes we may ask you your real or legal name for legal reasons.

In the **Integrations and Services** we made or offer on some platforms such as Telegram and Discord, we only collect an unique user ID, your basic public user info (name, profile photo), and basic chat info. Any messages our integrations we made on these platforms

### E-mail Address and Phone Number
When you sign up an account on our **Websites**/**Apps**, your email address will be stored on our database and will be only used for important announcements and any account-related notifications. When you enable 2FA on your account, you may opt to use SMS or voice call-based 2FA and that number will be only be used for 2FA purposes only. That's right: no marketing or “we miss you” bullshit.

You may opt to subscribe to our newsletters to receive announcements from the team which may or may not contains marketing crap and feel free to unsubscribe.

### Messages and Interactions
Any messages and interctions we receive through our **Intergations and Services** will be not used for any purposes than spam and fraud detection, product improvement and to power our APIs. Any metadata attached to these interactions we receive are handled with care by our staffs.

### Cookies
The only cookies we use are those to operate and provide our Services on the web. We do not use cookies for profiling or advertising. These cookies are harmless and take small space to your devices and these are allow us to provide and customize our Services in an way that enchance user experience.

Your browser should allow us to read and write cookies within our Services in the web and if you don't enable cookies, many parts of our Services on the web will not work properly, including the JS Automated Challenge to verify if you're an human.

## Keeping Your Personal Data Safe

### Safety and Security
To improve the security of your account as well as our services in general, as well as to prevent spam, abuse, and other violations of our Terms of Service, we may collect metadata such as your IP address, devices and browsers you use, history of username changes, etc. If collected, this metadata can be kept for 12 months maximum.

### Spam and Abuse
To prevent phishing, spam and other kinds of abuse and violations of our Terms of Service, our moderators may check content that were reported to them by their recipients. If a spam report on  message you ent is confirmed by our moderators, your account will be temporarily suspended from using our Services.

In case of more serious violations, your account may be banned. We may also use automated algorithms to analyze messages in cloud chats to stop spam and phishing.

For our Community Network Hub in Telegram, please see our [Community Federation Privacy Policy](../extras/privacy-policy/telegram-community-fed).

### No Ads
Unlike other services, we don't use your data for ad targeting or other commercial purposes. The Pins Team only stores the informations it needs to function our services.

## Who Your Personal Data May Be Shared With

### Other Users
Other users of our Services with whom you choose to communicate with and share certain information, who may be located outside the EEA. Note that by entering into the Terms of Service and choosing to communicate with such other users of our Services, you are instructing us to transfer your personal data, on your behalf, to those users in accordance with this Privacy Policy. We employ all appropriate technical and organizational measures (including encryption of your personal data) to ensure a level of security for your personal data that is appropriate to the risk.

### Our Staff
We may share your data with our staff, to help provide, improve and support our Services. We will implement appropriate safeguards to protect the security and integrity of that personal data.

## Your Rights on your Personal Data

### Your rights
Under applicable data protection laws of your country, in certain cirumstances, you have rights concerining your personal data. You have a right to:
- request a copy of all of your personal data that we store and to transmit that copy to another data controller
- delete or amend your data
- restrict, or object to, the processing your data
- correct any inaccurate/incomplete data we hold on you
- lodge a complaint with national data protection authorities regarding our processing of your data.

### Exercising your rights
If you wish to exercies any of these rights, kindly contct us using the details in the **Questions and Concerns** section of this policy.

### Managing your data
You can control how your data is used in your Privacy and Security Settings. If you're on the pltforms where our services are available, you can change the settings anytime.

Sadly, if you're generally not OK with our modest requirements, it won't be possible for us to provide you with our Services. You can ask us to delete your account or its data.

## Deleting data

### Accounts
If you would like to delete your account, please contact us thru email with subject line `Delete my account for [account ID or your email here]`. We may ask you to get a photocopy or digitalized version of your government ID and your proof of residence to verify ownership. Once your account is deleted, it cannot be done.

### Messages and Interactions
We may store some of your messages for spam and fraud detection and we'll delete it if we don't need it anymore.

## Changes to the Privacy Policy
We'll review and may udate this privacy Policy from time to time. Any chnages of our General Privacy Policy will become effective after 60 days. To see any changes and or read its pervious revisions, you may visit the [legal website's Git commits](https://gitlab.com/MadeByThePinsTeam-DevLabs/legal/legal.madebythepins.tk/commits/develop).

## Questions and Concerns
If you have any questions about privacy and our dat policies, please email us at `privacy@madebythepins.tk` (or `gdpr@madebythepins.tk` for GDPR inquiries) or send us a PM to [our Support Telegram account](ThePinsTeam) or [an DM in Twitter](https://twitter.com/ThePinsTeam), which we will answer at the earilest opportunity.

Our apps, integrations, services and websites are open source and everyone can see it on [GitHub](https://github.com/MadeByThePinsHub) or [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/MadeByThePinsTeam-DevLabs). Some of our websites or its parts may use open-source components/software.

This privacy policy was adopted from [Telegram Privacy Policy](https://telegrm.org/privacy), with some customizations for our case.
